Now, let's take a look at the complete hardware implementation,
and learn the functionality of each component.
Let's start with the transmitter side.
First one, the frequency synthesizer.
It is the component that generates transmit frequency of the signal.
The strength of the signal generated is too low at this stage,
hence a power amplifier is used to amplify the signal.
The right amount of amplification helps a radar to sense the target at long distances.
Next is an antenna.
An antenna is an important component.
The antenna converts electrical energy into
electromagnetic waves which radiate through the air,
go hit the target,
and then gets reflected back towards the radar,
receiver, antenna right here.
An antenna also help increase the strength of
the signal by focusing the energy in the desired direction.
Moving onto the mixer now.
In FMCW Radar, the mixer multiplies
the return signal with the sweeping signal generated by the frequency synthesizer.
The operation works as frequency subtraction to give the frequency Delta,
also known as frequency shift,
intermediate frequency, or beat frequency.
Last is the brain of the radar or its processor.
The processing unit is responsible for carrying out all the digital signal processing,
detection, tracking, clustering, and other algorithms.
It is generally implemented on the microcontroller or FPGA.
Let's see what do we have here.
The elimination zones of the radar.
The one in the green is from the short-range radar,
and orange is from the long range radar.
These elimination zones are dependent on the antenna pattern.
What is an antenna pattern?
An antenna pattern is a geometric pattern of the strength of its electric field.
Let's look further how it impacts radar perception.
As you can see in this image,
an antenna pattern has one main beam and
several other small beams which are called as the side lobes.
The main beam is responsible for detecting the targets.
The beam width of the main-lobe determines the field of view for the radar sensor.
So if the requirement for the radar is to just sense the targets in its own lane,
then the beam width needs to be small.
If the beam is wider than the lane width,
it will sense the targets and other lanes as well.
The antenna side lobes are undesirable because they can
generate false alarms and pick indifference from undesired direction.
As seen in the pattern,
the side lobes of the antenna point in
different directions and can sense targets set out in the main beam.
The wide side lobe detection,
it is critical to suppress the side lobe levels.